hack/README.md, before:

# Assorted scripts for development

This directory contains several scripts useful in the development process of
Tekton Pipelines.

- [`update-codegen.sh`](./update-codegen.sh): Updates auto-generated client
  libraries.
- [`update-deps.sh`](./update-deps.sh): Updates Go dependencies.
- [`update-openapigen.sh`](./update-openapigen.sh): Updates OpenAPI specification and Swagger file.
- [`verify-codegen.sh`](./verify-codegen.sh): Verifies that auto-generated
  client libraries are up-to-date.
- [`update-reference-docs.sh`](./update-reference-docs.sh) and related files: Generates [`docs/pipeline-api.md`](../docs/pipeline-api.md).
  - [`reference-docs-gen-config.json`](./reference-docs-gen-config.json) is the configuration file for the [`gen-api-reference-docs`](https://github.com/tektoncd/ahmetb-gen-crd-api-reference-docs) binary.
  - [`reference-docs-template`](./reference-docs-template) contains Go templates for the generated Markdown.
- Release docs have been moved to [the top-level `tekton` dir](../tekton)

Commit message:

ci: Automate Dependabot configuration generation
- Generate the dependabot configuration to handle LTS branches in
  order to prevent release branches dependencies drift and reduce manual
  effort in maintaining per-branch dependency updates
- For release branches, only bump dependencies on patch versions
- Enable weekly automated checks with PR creation on changes

Signed-off-by: Vincent Demeester <vdemeest@redhat.com>

hack/README.md, after:

# Assorted scripts for development

This directory contains several scripts useful in the development process of
Tekton Pipelines.

- [`update-codegen.sh`](./update-codegen.sh): Updates auto-generated client
  libraries.
- [`update-deps.sh`](./update-deps.sh): Updates Go dependencies.
- [`update-openapigen.sh`](./update-openapigen.sh): Updates OpenAPI specification and Swagger file.
- [`verify-codegen.sh`](./verify-codegen.sh): Verifies that auto-generated
  client libraries are up-to-date.
- [`update-reference-docs.sh`](./update-reference-docs.sh) and related files: Generates [`docs/pipeline-api.md`](../docs/pipeline-api.md).
  - [`reference-docs-gen-config.json`](./reference-docs-gen-config.json) is the configuration file for the [`gen-api-reference-docs`](https://github.com/tektoncd/ahmetb-gen-crd-api-reference-docs) binary.
  - [`reference-docs-template`](./reference-docs-template) contains Go templates for the generated Markdown.
- [`generate-dependabot.sh`](./generate-dependabot.sh): Generates [`.github/dependabot.yml`](../.github/dependabot.yml) from [`.github/dependabot.config.yml`](../.github/dependabot.config.yml). This allows monitoring dependencies on multiple release branches with a single configuration file. A [GitHub Actions workflow](../.github/workflows/dependabot-regen.yml) automatically regenerates this file weekly and creates a PR if changes are detected.
- Release docs have been moved to [the top-level `tekton` dir](../tekton)
