docs/developers/README.md, before:

# Developer docs

This document is aimed at helping maintainers/developers of project understand
the complexity.

We also recommend checking out the
[Teknical Tekton](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUEuKDqyRnGFCE7FpainSpQ)
channel for training and tutorials on Tekton!

## Contents
- Developing on Tekton:
  - [Local Setup](./local-setup.md): Getting your local environment set up to develop on Tekton.
  - [Testing](../../test/README.md): Running Tekton tests.
  - [Tracing](./tracing.md): Enabling Jaeger tracing
- How Tekton is run on Kubernetes:
  - [Controller Logic](./controller-logic.md): How Tekton extends Kubernetes using Knative.
  - [TaskRun Logic](./taskruns.md): How TaskRuns are run in pods.
  - [Resources Labeling](./resources-labelling.md): Labels applied to Tekton resources.
  - [Multi-Tenant Support](./multi-tenant-support.md): Running Tekton in multi-tenant configurations.
- [API Versioning](./api-versioning.md): How Tekton supports multiple API versions and feature gates.
- How specific features are implemented:
  - [Results](./results-lifecycle.md)
  - [Affinity Assistant](./affinity-assistant.md)

Commit message:

perf(controller): add informer cache transform to reduce memory usage
Add a cache transform that strips unnecessary fields from
PipelineRuns, TaskRuns, CustomRuns and Pods before they are stored in
the informer cache. This reduces memory usage for controllers
processing large numbers of runs.

We are removing the following from all (PipelineRuns, TaskRuns,
CustomRuns and Pods)

- managedFields (can be 25-30% of object size)
- kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration annotation

We are also stripping more fields from different objects depending on
the status of the object.

- For completed objects, we are removing as much as we can, as we will
never, ever do anything with those objects.
- For TaskRuns (in the PipelineRun controller), we are few status
fields as well (that we don't need).

Fixes: #7691

Also add benchmark tests that measure the memory savings with realistic PipelineRun
objects. Results show 78.3% size reduction for completed PipelineRuns.

Signed-off-by: Vincent Demeester <vdemeest@redhat.com>

docs/developers/README.md, after:

# Developer docs

This document is aimed at helping maintainers/developers of project understand
the complexity.

We also recommend checking out the
[Teknical Tekton](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUEuKDqyRnGFCE7FpainSpQ)
channel for training and tutorials on Tekton!

## Contents
- Developing on Tekton:
  - [Local Setup](./local-setup.md): Getting your local environment set up to develop on Tekton.
  - [Testing](../../test/README.md): Running Tekton tests.
  - [Tracing](./tracing.md): Enabling Jaeger tracing
- How Tekton is run on Kubernetes:
  - [Controller Logic](./controller-logic.md): How Tekton extends Kubernetes using Knative.
  - [TaskRun Logic](./taskruns.md): How TaskRuns are run in pods.
  - [Resources Labeling](./resources-labelling.md): Labels applied to Tekton resources.
  - [Multi-Tenant Support](./multi-tenant-support.md): Running Tekton in multi-tenant configurations.
  - [Informer Cache Transform](../tekton-controller-performance-configuration.md#informer-cache-transform-memory-optimization): Memory optimization that strips fields from cached objects.
- [API Versioning](./api-versioning.md): How Tekton supports multiple API versions and feature gates.
- How specific features are implemented:
  - [Results](./results-lifecycle.md)
  - [Affinity Assistant](./affinity-assistant.md)
